# React

React is a library written in JavaScript that tries to and usually succeeds at making it easier to make interactive web pages. While you are all going to this CodeSandbox link, I am going to briefly explain how React makes coding simpler.

Let's look at [this checkout form](https://hacksu.github.io/react-tutorial/checkout-example/checkout-js.html), \[note to presenter: go to that site and show them these things] which I created using just the tools from our first lesson (HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.) The idea is that you can pay for a purchase at Mitch Mart using any combination of these three payment options: your existing account credit, a new credit card, or just trust me bro, come on, I'll pay you back, just trust me. If you're using an existing account, the login part is enabled; if you're entering a new card, the new card part is enabled, but if you're playing the bro card, you never need to enter anything.

So it's very simple to state the logic of when each form field should be enabled. The login fields should be enabled if the first checkbox is checked and the third one isn't; and the new card fields should be enabled if the second checkbox is checked and the third one isn't. Does that logic make sense to everyone?

So, in JavaScript, the thing that makes pages interactive are event listeners, which are functions that are automatically called when the user interacts with something on the page. To implement the functionality we have here, we basically have to write three event listeners - one for each checkbox - and they have to make changes to keep the page logically consistent. The event listener for the "existing account" checkbox has to enable or disable the login fields, but to know if it's allowed to enable them, it has to find the "trust me bro" checkbox using its ID or something similar and see if that is checked, because it's not allowed to enable these fields if it is. The event listener for the "new card" checkbox has to do the same thing with these other fields. And while the "trust me bro" checkbox's event listener has a really simple job to do when it gets checked (it just disables everything), when it gets unchecked, it has to retrieve the other two checkboxes and then enable the form fields that correspond to them only if they say so.

So, in short, we have three different event listener functions, they have to find and read from these other checkbox elements to find out what changes they need to make to the page, and the rules they have to follow to enforce our simple rules take some thinking about. We've gone from simple logic that I could get you all agree on to a long description that you'd probably want to double-check. Now let's visit [the version of this form that I made with React](https://hacksu.github.io/react-tutorial/checkout-example/checkout-react.html) [it's also linked at the bottom of the vanilla JS version] and see what's different.

The functionality of this page is exactly the same. The first difference is that generally, in the world of React, you have variables that store the state of the page that you can access directly. Without React, you have to run code the find the checkboxes to read out whether they're checked or not when you're disabling or enabling form fields. With React, you get the variables that I am basically printing so that you can see them here. Right now, since none of the checkboxes are checked, they're all storing "false".

And for the second difference, let's see what React does when we change whether a checkbox is checked.
